# EC2 #

## Introduction ##

It's a Cloud Computing Service. You can choose your OS, Storage, Memory, Network Throughput. You can launch and SSH in a server in minutes.

It's highly configurable; you can choose the OS via Amazon Machine Image (AMI), the instance type (memory and CPU), the storage, security groups.

## Types ##

* **General Purpose**, balance of compute, memory and networking resources (A1, T3, T2, M5, M4)
* **Compute Optimized**, ideal for compute application that needs high performance processors (C5, C4)
* **Memory Optimized**, fast performance for workloads that process large data sets in memory (R5, X1)
* **Accelerated Optimized**, hardware accelerators or co-processors (P3, P2, G3, F1)
* **Storage Optimized**, high, sequential read and write access to very large data sets on local storage (I3, D2, H1)

## Main Concepts ##

* **Instance Profile**, instead of embedding you AWS credentials in the code, you can **Attach an IAM Role** to an instance, that has the needed permissions. It holds a reference to a role. When you select an IAM role starting the EC2, AWS will create the profile.
* **Placement Groups**, let you choose the logical placement of your instance to optimize communication, performance and durability. They are Free.
  * **Cluster**
    * packs instances together in an AZ
    * low latency network performances
    * well suited for High Performance Computing apps
  * **Partition**
    * spread instances across logical partitions
    * each partition doesn't share the underlying hardware with the other
    * well suited for large distributed and replicated workloads
  * **Spread**
    * each instance is placed on a different rack
    * well suited for instances that should be kept separated from each other
    * can be multi AZ, for a max of 7 instances
* **UserData**, it's a script that will be automatically ran when the EC2 instance is launched. You can install packages, apply updates, everything. From the EC2 instance, you can access it via `curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data`
* **MetaData**, additional info about the EC2 instance that you can get at run-time via `curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data`