# Simple Storage Service (S3) #

## Introduction ##

It's an object-based storage service. Provides unlimited storage. No need to think about the underlying infrastructure.

* **Object Storage**, it's a data storage architecture that manages data as objects, opposed to:
  * **File System**, manages data as a file hierarchy
  * **Block Storage**, manages data as blocks within sectors and tracks

## Main Concepts ##

* **S3 Object**, contains the data, like files. It consists of:
  * **Key**, the name of the object
  * **Value**, the data itself
  * **Version ID**, when versioning is enabled, the version of the data
  * **Metadata**, additional info attached to the data
  * **Size**, from **0 Bytes** to 5 Tb
* **S3 Bucket**, it holds objects. Can have folders. It's an universal namespace, so it's name must bu unique globally in all AWS
* **Storage Classes**, you can trade Retrieval Time, Accessibility and Durability for Cheaper Storage:
  * **Standard**
    * higher price
    * default one
    * really fast
    * 99.99% availability
    * 99.9999999999 (11 9's) durability
    * replicated at least in 3 AZ
  * **Intelligent Tiering**
    * ML analyze objects usage and determines the appropriate storage class
  * **Standard Infrequently Accessed (IA)**
    * fast
    * cheaper if files are accessed less than once a month
    * 50% less than standard (reduced availability)
  * **One Zone IA**
    * fast
    * objects only in one AZ
    * availability is 99.5%
    * cheaper than Standard IA by 20%
    * data could be destroyed
  * **Glacier**
    * for long-term cold storage
    * retrieval can take minutes to hours
    * very cheap storage
  * **Glacier Deep Archive**
    * lower price
    * retrieval time is 12 hours
* **Security**:
  * all new buckets are **private** when created, by **default**
  * logging per request can be turned on for a bucket. Log files are saved in a different bucket
  * Access Control is configured using **Bucket Policies** and **Access Control Lists**
* **Encryption**:
  * **In Transit**, for the traffic between local and S3, the envryption is achieved with SSL/TLS
  * **Server Side (SSE)**, data are encrypted once stored, using AES, KMS or Customer Keys
  * **Client Side**, the client can encrypt before uploading to S3
* **Data Consistency**::
  * **New** Objects
    * **Read After Write** Consistency, when the object is uploaded you can immediately read
  * **OverWrites** or **Delete** Objects
    * **Eventual** Consistency, it takes time to replicate the change to all AZs. Wait some seconds before reading
* **Cross Region Replication (CRR)**, when enabled, any object is automatically replicated in another region. Provides higher durability and potential disaster recovery. Must have **Versioning** enabled on both source and destination buckets
* **Versioning**:
  * store all versions of an object in S3
  * once enabled cannot be disabled, only suspended
  * provides extra protection against data loss
* **Lifecycle Management**, automate the process of moving objects to different storage classes, or deleting them, using customer defined rules. Can be used with versioning.
* **Transfer Acceleration**
  * provides fast and secure transfer of files over long distances, between the end user and the S3 bucket
  * utilizes CloudFront's distributed Edge Locations: instead of uploading to your bucket, users uses a distinct URL for the EL
  * as the data arrives to the Edge Location it's automatically routed to S3 using **Amazon Backbone Network**, an optimized network path
* **Presigned URLs**, it's an URL that provides temporary access to an S3 object. Commonly used for private objects.
* **MFA Delete**, ensures users cannot delete objects from a bucket, unless they provide their MFA code. Can be enabled only via the CLI, and with versioning enabled.
